# RealEstate
Part 2 - Practical

Question 1 										[230 marks]

This question assesses the following Learning Outcomes:
•	L.O. 1 - Create programs that apply advanced programming techniques and object-oriented concepts.
•	L.O 2 - Follow best practice, industry standards, professional ethics, diagram designing, programming and documentation conventions during the programming process.

A Bahraini Real Estate company has requested an application to manage their agent and property information. The application should maintain a list of all agents and a list of unassigned properties (these are properties that have not been assigned to an agent yet). Properties are assigned to agents from the unassigned properties list. Each agent maintains their own unique list of properties that they are responsible for. Agents are responsible for showing the property to potential customers and dealing with the sale of the property. 
Properties can be divided into 2 types : Houses and apartments. 
The following information should be recorded for every agent: agent ID, name, phone number and annual Bonus. The agent should also maintain the list of properties that they are responsible for.
The following information should be recorded for every property: property ID, size, number of bedrooms, and price.
Furthermore, additional information will need to be recorded for both houses and apartments, as follows: 
•	house – size of garden, whether or not the house has a basement. 
•	apartment – floor, whether or not the apartment has a balcony.

Notes : The code in the driver class is provided for you. Within the main method of the driver class, the menu below is repeatedly displayed until the user chooses to exit. Depending on the user’s choice from the menu, a method in the ‘RealEstateCompany’ class is called which executes that action. You must write the appropriate code within these methods. 

Please choose an option from the following menu:
                    1. Add an agent to the system
                    2. Add a property to the system
                    3. Assign a property to an agent
                    4. Sell a property
                    5. Exit


a.	Download the Netbeans project from Moodle named ‘RealEstateCompany’ and work from here. The driver class named ‘RealEstateDriver’ and the ‘Property’ class have been provided complete with code. The ‘RealEstateCompany’ class is also provided with empty methods only. Create additional classes as appropriate to solve this problem.
In your solution make sure to include all the information listed above (e.g. name, phone number, etc.). Make sure to include accessor and mutator methods for each attribute (get/set methods).
											21 marks 

b.	Where appropriate create a custom constructor for each class which allows you to set the values of the attributes using variables passed into the constructor as parameters. 															28 marks 

c.	The ‘addAnAgent()’ method of the RealEstateCompany class should allow an agent to be added to the application. The application should get the information for the agent from the user and store the agent in an appropriate data structure. The ID of the agent should be automatically generated by the application.							 	 	19.5 marks

d.	The ‘addProperty()’ method of the RealEstateCompany class should allow a property to be added to the application. The application should ask the user what type of property (house or apartment) they would like to add to the system, then retrieve the information for that property from the user and store the property in the list of unassigned properties. The property ID should be automatically generated by the application. If a valid choice of property to store is not entered, print a message indicating so.
(Note : validation only needs to be performed on the users choice of a type of property)
											  46.5 marks

e.	The ‘assignProperty()’ method of the RealEstateCompany class should provide the ability to assign a property to an agent. Search the list of agents for an agent to assign the property to. (You must use a loop to do this). If the agent is found, search the list of unassigned properties for a property to assign to the agent. If the property is found, then assign the property to the agent and remove it from the unassigned properties list.
If either the agent ID or property ID entered was not found, print a message indicating so.  								     					46 marks

f.	The ‘sellProperty()’ method of the RealEstateCompany class should allow a property to be sold. Selling a property involves removing a property from an agent’s list of properties and adding a bonus to the agent’s annual bonus.
Search for the agent who wants to sell a property. (You must use a loop to do this). If the agent is found, search the agents list of properties for the property that is to be sold. If the property is found, remove the property from the agents list of properties and add a bonus to the agents’ annual bonus. To add a bonus, you will need to create a method named ‘addToBonus’ in the Agent class which will take the property price as the parameter. Within the method add 1% of the property price on to the annual bonus.																		    				60 marks

g.	Comment all your code and make sure you follow conventions.			9 marks
